---
title: "Brain Fog"
path: "/blog/2020/02/07/brain-fog"
date: "2020-02-07"
---
As I have grown up (figuratively that is. I&#39;ve always been short), I have
become more and more aware of the feeling of brain fog. What I used to just
think was a lack of sleep is actually far more complex, yet useful for gauging
the benefit of different lifestyle choices.

It was this goal for findingconsistency and mentally clarity that lead me to
finding 30 day challenges. Introduced to me through a video by freelance
film-maker/YouTuber [Matt
D&#39;Avella](https://youtube.com/user/blackboxfilmcompany). Usually from the
beginning of each month, and for 30 days, you chose 1 activity or change to
commit to and just focus on that one thing to add to your life. I found that
this made trying new things more interesting and stopped me over-loading myself
when I feel like I am not good enough. Real change comes from slowing down and
making small, compound changes, which overall lead to bigger changes as you
grow.

*Just to note this obviously isn&#39;t advice. More so, this is just my
experience in trying to make my life better and you shouldn&#39;t really be
listening to me anyway.*

With that said: What is brain fog? In my experience, brain fog is pretty self explanatory.
Thoughts feel slow and uninspired, and despite efforts to rouse; the task of
concentrating seems near impossible without a Finnish ice bath to shock the
nervous system awake. All round it just feels bad.

I don&#39;t know the best way to tackle this phenomena. I have found real tangible
results with getting at least 7 hours sleep every night and with getting to
sleep at as consistent a time as I can maintain. Also with creating an exercise
schedule and keeping to it. Overall I think the key is just in consistency. We
adapt to what we experience on a regular basis. Obviously, continuously treating
yourself with no respect won&#39;t get you anywhere but by making decisions just to
&#39;quit&#39; after a few weeks of &#39;giving up on sugar&#39; and binging is more
counter-productive than gradually reducing sugar when you can at your own pace.

I&#39;ve come to realize I don&#39;t need to be who I want to be at this very second.
In-fact, the goal posts are always moving because getting everything you want would make
everything instantly lose all meaning. Therefore, you naturally aim higher as
you improve so chasing the target will only lead to the feeling of
disappointment. Aiming and letting yourself get there at the pace it
takes is all you can really do whilst celebrating the small victories along the
way.

I&#39;ll keep trying 30 day challenges when I can. This month (Feb 2020) i&#39;m trying
to get into writing and so have written for at least half an hour every day. I
might put a section up on the projects page about my past, present and future
30 day challenges when I can be bothered ;)
